One of the first considerations in
software development is choosing a programming language or modeling framework.
Some are more suitable for functional safety than others.
C, C++, and MATLAB/SIMULINK are all good choices.
All of these share certain characteristics that
makes them appropriate for function and safety applications.
First, they all have an unambiguous definition of syntax and semantics.
Second, they all run on real time operating systems.
Third they all support runtime error handling.
Finally they support modularity,
abstraction, and object oriented design.
Function safety also requires the use of a software development guideline.
Two of the most common guidelines are MISRA C and MISRA C++.
MISRA stands for Motor Industry Software Reliability Association.
These guidelines define a subset of
the C and C++ programming languages
that are appropriate for safety critical applications.
They discuss defensive implementation techniques,
language subsets, style guides and naming conventions.